# Headers

| UMIP-11    |                                     |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------- |
| UMIP Title | Add renBTC as a collateral currency |
| Authors    | Adrian Li (adrian@umaproject.org)   |
| Status     | Draft                               |
| Created    | August 26, 2020                     |

## Summary

This UMIP will add renBTC as an approved collateral currency. This will involve adding it to the whitelist and adding a flat final fee to charge per-request. The proposed final fee is 0.018 renBTC per request.

## Motivation

BTC is the world’s largest and most popular cryptocurrency by market capitalization as well as traded volume. Many holders of BTC like to borrow against their BTC to get leverage on their BTC. At the time of writing, over 7,000 WBTC are locked in MakerDAO in this fashion.

To allow synthetic tokens created with the EMP to take advantage of this liquidity and desire for leverage, an ERC20-compliant representation of BTC is required. renBTC is an ERC20 token backed 1:1 with BTC using the decentralized Ren Protocol.

renBTC as collateral is expected to have a variety of deployments. The timing for adding it now, and the immediate application, is for use with USDBTC, which will enable the creation of yUSD, a yielding dollar token. This price identifier is described in [UMIP-7](./umip-7.md).

## Technical Specification

To accomplish this upgrade, three changes need to be made:

- The renBTC address, 0xeb4c2781e4eba804ce9a9803c67d0893436bb27d, needs to be added to the collateral currency whitelist introduced in UMIP-8.
- A final fee of 0.018 needs to be added for renBTC in the Store contract.
- The precision for the USDBTC price identifier needs to be amended to 8 decimals instead of the usual 18 in order to comply with renBTC’s 8 decimals of precision.

## Rationale

The rationale behind this change is giving deployers more useful collateral currency options. renBTC needs to be used instead of BTC due to it being an ERC20 representing BTC on the Ethereum blockchain, whereas native BTC does not exist on the Ethereum blockchain.

renBTC was chosen in particular due to the fact that renBTC is the most popular (and largest) truly decentralized BTC-representing coin on the Ethereum blockchain. It is not being chosen at the exclusion of other possible BTC-representing coins, but it is a natural first choice for this purpose.

While wBTC currently has larger market dominance than renBTC, it is worth noting that renBTC has already gained significant traction in the DeFi space. There exists a large amount of renBTC liquidity on Curve Finance ($98m), Balancer ($5m), and Uniswap ($150k).

Large projects like Compound and Maker already have wBTC as a collateral type, so using renBTC within the UMA ecosystem can serve to differentiate the UMA community in terms of promoting a more decentralized version of BTC on the Ethereum blockchain.

## Implementation

This change has no implementation other than adding the collateral type to the whitelist.

## Security considerations

renBTC is minted with real BTC via RenVM, a trustless and decentralized virtual machine run by a network of nodes known as Darknodes. A user first sends BTC to a dedicated Bitcoin address generated by a dapp and verified by RenVM. The BTC is held in custody by RenVM's decentralized network of Darknodes. renBTC is backed 1:1 with BTC.

Since renBTC is minted trustlessly as a token backed via the Ren Protocol, including it as a collateral currency should impose minimal risk to the protocol.

The only security implication is for contract deployers and users who are considering using EMP contracts with renBTCC as the collateral currency. They should recognize that, relative to most fiat currencies, renBTC is much more volatile than Dai. This volatility should be taken into account when parameterizing or using these EMP contracts.
