| UMIP-93   |                                                                                                                                          |
|------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| UMIP Title | Add yvUSDC as a whitelisted collateral currency              |
| Authors    | Pascal Tallarida (pascal@jarvis.network)                 |
| Status     | Approved                                                 |
| Created    | 09/05/2021   
| Discourse link    | https://discourse.umaproject.org/t/add-yvusdc-as-approved-collateral/1060                                   |

## Summary

This UMIP will add yvUSDC, an interest-bearing stablecoin tokenizing USDC deposited in YEARN V2 Vaults, as approved collateral currency. This will involve adding the currency to the whitelist and adding a flat final fee to charge per-request. The proposed final fee is 400 yvUSDC per request.

## Motivation

yvUSDC is an ERC20 token reprenseting one's USDC deposit within Yean's V2 USDC Vault. 

It is an interest-bearing stablecoin which grows in value automatically (the yvUSDC/USDC rate is constantly going up, following the yield generated by the vault). 

Adding yvUSDC as collateral will allow the creation of new synthetic assets backed by this stablecoin which only grows in value. For example, it will allow us, at Jarvis, to launch new liquidity pools based on yvUSDC (see [UMIP-34](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/blob/master/UMIPs/umip-34.md). 



## Technical Specification

To accomplish this upgrade, two changes need to be made:

- The yvUSDC address, 0x5f18c75abdae578b483e5f43f12a39cf75b973a9, needs to be added to the collateral currency whitelist introduced in UMIP-8.
- A final fee of 400 yvUSDC needs to be added for yvUSDC in the Store contract.

## Rationale

The rationale behind this change is giving deployers more useful collateral currency options.	


400 yvUSDC was chosen as the final fee for yvUSDC because this is the practical equivalent to the final fee of already
approved stablecoins.


## Implementation

This change has no implementation other than proposing the two aforementioned governor transactions that will be proposed.

## Security considerations
yvUSDC bear the centralized risks of USDC and the technical risks of Yearn: yearn's vault  are investing depositors' USDC into other protocols in order to generate yield, therefore, in addition to yearn's own smart contract, yvUSDC also bears the risk of the underlying protocols used for generating the yield.

Although, Yearn's team has quite a conservative risk management and assessment matrix, so the risk is limited.

Using yvUSDC as collateral for contract deployers and users should be done without considering 1 yvUSDC = 1 USD; yvUSDC is an interest-bearing stablecoin which constantly grows in value. Contract deployers would need to use the yvUSDC/USDC exchange rate.

A potential added risk for liquidators is that the yvUSDC token can be obtained only by depositing USDC in Yearn V2 Vault system (currently there is not a secondary market for the token). In that case liquidators are exposed to a possible high gas costs, which might dissolve some of the profits from the liquidation itself. One way to mitigate this is to hold a reserve of yvUSDC, which allows generating yield while a liquidation opportunity arrises. 
